hi my name is Cal Warner with the law
firm of Searcy Denny I'm here today to
talk to you a little bit about strikers
recall of its rejuvenate hip implant
system after only three short years in
striker launched the rejuvenate system
strikers new flagship hip implant line
they have abruptly issued a voluntary
recall for the device this news came as
no surprise to us at Sur see Denny
because we have been investigating
rejuvenate cases for months during that
time we have spoken to many rejuvenate
victims who seem to tell exactly the
same story most of our clients say they
specifically chose the rejuvenate system
because they had seen the publicity
about problems patients were having with
metal on metal implants this wasn't a
hard sell for them since most of their
orthopedic surgeons had stopped
implanting metal devices already unlike
those devices the rejuvenate typically
employs a ceramic ball that fits into a
socket with a plastic liner since no
metal is rubbing on metal there should
be no problem both patients and their
doctors felt the rejuvenate was a safe
alternative to devices with metal balls
and metal sockets unfortunately the
rejuvenate is what's called a modular
system unlike virtually all other hip
implants that are one piece the
rejuvenate is a two piece system the
metal stem or part that is implanted
into the thigh bone and the metal neck
which connects that stem to the ball are
two pieces how these are connected and
how they fail are the subject of another
video but suffice it to say it is at
this junction where the neck meets the
stem where this device is failing the
rejuvenate implant ends up causing the
same exact problems as metal on metal
devices it's sad by tonic that patients
are suffering from exactly the problems
they took specific steps to avoid our
clients medical records document that
the rejuvenate caused heavy metal
poisoning most of my clients have
elevated levels of cobalt in their blood
many had MRIs that showed an abnormal
collection of fluid around their implant
when you review their operative reports
the findings are very consistent most
experienced soft tissue destruction the
tissue around the muscle around the
clients implants show dev
necrosis in some cases the doctor was
forced to debride or cut away portions
of dead tissue in some cases large
pseudo tumors formed around the clients
implants a pseudo tumor is a large
collection of turbid milky colored thick
fluid on x-ray it looks a lot like a
tumor and that's why they call it a
pseudo tumor in april of this year
striker issued an urgent feel safety
notice telling surgeons and hospitals
that the rejuvenate had been linked to
excessive metal debris from corrosion at
the next in junction we were just
talking about in strikers own words it
said that this can lead to adverse local
tissue reaction including metallosis
necrosis which leads to pain they said
this may lead to the need for revision
to date the government has received over
60 adverse event reports filed by
doctors complaining about the rejuvenate
failing that number has been increasing
dramatically since the beginning of 2012
these reports tend to be filed in groups
which means that doctors are having
multiple failures we had sir see Denny
represents several clusters of patients
who have had their rejuvenate put in and
then removed by the exact same doctor
what you also may find interesting is
that our clients have been talking to
their doctors about this problem even
before the recall most doctors had told
their patients they quit using the
rejuvenate because the problems they had
in their practice they have also told us
that their doctors had been personally
complaining to stryker about how bad
this device is one even told his patient
that he had personally spoken to the
president of striker about the problems
he'd been experiencing with the
rejuvenate all of this helps explain why
striker has pulled the plug on the
rejuvenate implant in strikers recall
notice they admit that they are
recalling the product because of
abnormal metalware and adverse local
tissue reactions these are the same
reasons they put in the urgent feel
safety notice I told you about that they
sent in April remember I told you that
this is a voluntary market recall that
is a huge step for a medical device
manufacturer they hate the word recall
and will do anything in the world to
avoid a full-blown recall typically when
manufacturers begin to smell a rat with
one of their devices they simply
redesign it and quit selling the old
model if press they may call that a
market withdrawal but that does not have
the same stigma that a market recall
does unless a device manufacturer thinks
that the fda is going to force a recall
they usually won't issue a voluntary
recall so striker must have received an
awful lot of damaging evidence over the
past couple of years and months to
prompt this abrupt recall we had sir see
Denny are very committed to helping
those affected by the striker recall for
the latest information check back here